feat: add blog for cleaning aws account (#1510)
iasql/iasql-engine: site/blog/2022-10-27-clean-your-aws-account.mdx

---
slug: clean-your-aws-account
title: Clean your AWS account just by clicking a button
authors: [yrobla]
---

# Clean your AWS account by simply clicking a button

One of the main complexities of working with AWS is the amount of resources that can be created, either by manual or automated workflows. The chained resources created and their dependencies can quickly get out of control, and it could be a nightmare to clean them up.

Having unknown resources running will cause you to incur on extra costs, or could cause unexpected conflicts. Cleaning those manually can be a hard task... manually visiting each AWS service page in the console, investigating the dependencies, manually cleaning... it is a time-consuming, error-prone task.

> To solve this problem you can use our IaSQL engine. By simply clicking a button, our engine will get an snapshot of the status of your cloud, showing you all the resources that you have created over the time, on multiple regions.

Reviewer: it is worth pointing out that we will only be able to clean up the services we cover. we can point to here  https://github.com/iasql/iasql-engine#aws-services-with-significant-api-coverage and update that?

There may be some resources that you are aware of and you need to keep, but also some leftovers or unknown resources created by some automated process.

> **Want to give a try? Join our service for free and start taking control of your cloud.**

Reviewer: I would move this to the end and maybe something less sales-y like

Connect your AWS account to IaSQL for free using the [dashboard](app.iasql.com). To read more about AWS account management check our documentation guide https://iasql.com/docs/aws/

Author: what part to do you want me to move? the button one?

<!--- https://www.urlencoder.org/ -->

> <p>

Reviewer: the `p` tag is not necessary

Author: actually if i add the <p> tag i get proper separation... otherwise the button is very tied to the snipped. Is there any other way to do it?

    <button class="button button--lg button--primary">List AWS resources</button>
  </a>
</p>

> ```

Reviewer: tag this snippet as SQL and also put it before the button like in the docs? https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iasql/iasql-engine/main/site/docs/sample-queries/aws_ec2.md

---
slug: clean-your-aws-account
title: Clean your AWS account just by clicking a button
authors: [depombo, dfellis, aguillenv, yrobla]
---

# Clean your AWS account by simply clicking a button

> One of the main complexities of working with AWS is the amount of resources that can be created, either by manual or automated workflows. The chained resources created and dependencies can quickly get out of control, and it could be a nightmare to clean up then.

Reviewer 2: Nit

```suggestion
One of the main complexities of working with AWS is the amount of resources that can be created, either by manual or automated workflows. The chained resources created and their dependencies can quickly get out of control, and it could be a nightmare to clean them up.
```

> Having resources out of control will cause you to incur on extra costs, or could cause unexpected conflicts. Cleaning those manually can be a hard task... manually visiting each resource, investigating the dependencies, manually cleaning... it is a time-consuming, error-prone task.

Reviewer 2: Nit

```suggestion
Having unknown resources running will cause you to incur on extra costs, or could cause unexpected conflicts. Cleaning those manually can be a hard task... manually visiting each AWS service page in the console, investigating the dependencies, manually cleaning... it is a time-consuming, error-prone task.
```

> To solve this problem you can use our IaSQL engine. By simply clicking a button, our engine will get an snapshot of the status of your cloud, and will schedule deletion of the existing resources and its dependencies until your account is totally clean.

Author: Here i can just add the select one and illustrate all the resources that will show. Then i can tell the user how to issue individual delete calls, by adding some example.

title: Clean your AWS account just by clicking a button
authors: [yrobla]
---

# Clean your AWS account by simply clicking a button

One of the main complexities of working with AWS is the amount of resources that can be created, either by manual or automated workflows. The chained resources and their dependencies can quickly get out of control,
and it could be a nightmare to clean up then.

This is a common problem when using tests accounts, either for developing or testing some integrations. Often these accounts have resources out of control, causing you to incur on extra costs, or causing unexpected conflicts.
Cleaning those manually can be a hard task... manually visiting each resource, investigating the dependencies, manually cleaning... it is a time-consuming, error-prone task. If we consider that those resources may be created in
multiple regions, the manual procedure can become a very difficult task.

To solve this problem you can use our IaSQL engine. By simply clicking a button, our engine will get an snapshot of the status of your cloud, and will schedule deletion of the existing resources and its dependencies
until your account is totally cleaned.

> _Please note that our engine can offer this cleanup only for the resources covered by our system. You can get a full coverage list <a href="https://github.com/iasql/iasql-engine#aws-services-with-significant-api-coverage">here</a>._

Reviewer 3: Not directly related with this blogpost, but before launching this we should update this section https://github.com/iasql/iasql-engine#aws-services-with-significant-api-coverage

**Want to give a try? Join our service for free and start taking control of your cloud.**

<!--- https://www.urlencoder.org/ -->

<p>
  <a href="https://app.iasql.com/#/button/IaSQL AWS account cleanup/--%20Installing%20all%20IaSQL%20modules%0ASELECT%20iasql_install%28variadic%20array%28select%20module_name%20from%20iasql_modules_list%28%29%29%29%3B%0A--%20Deleting%20all%20resources%20from%20the%20db%0ASELECT%20%2A%20FROM%20delete_all_records%28%29%3B%0A--%20Previewing%20changes%20in%20your%20account%0ASELECT%20%2A%20FROM%20iasql_preview_apply%28%29%3B%0A--%20Applying%20delete%20changes%2C%20please%20uncomment%20it%20to%20perform%20the%20cleanup%0A--SELECT%20%2A%20FROM%20iasql_apply%28%29%3B">
    <button class="button button--lg button--primary">Clean your account!</button>
  </a>
</p>

After the initial module install, our engine will inspect your cloud and propose the resources to delete.

> If you agree with the proposed changes, please uncomment the delete sentence and apply, to let IaSQL totally clean up your account.

Reviewer 2: Nit. `sentence -> statement`

```suggestion
If you agree with the proposed changes, please uncomment the delete statement and apply, to let IaSQL totally clean up your account.
```

> If you agree with the proposed changes, please uncomment the delete statement and apply, to let IaSQL totally clean up your account.

Reviewer 3: maybe be more explicit with the action?
```suggestion
If you agree with the proposed changes, please uncomment the apply statement and execute it, to let IaSQL totally clean up your account.
```
